:memo: Rework Redis page (#2873)
platformsh/platformsh-docs: docs/src/add-services/redis.md

sidebarTitle: "Redis"
---

[Redis](https://redis.io/documentation) is a multi-model database that allows you to store data in memory

> for high-performance data retrieval and storage purposes.

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: Maybe I'm too allergic to the word `purposes`, but I think it works without it. Otherwise, it is clearer now.
```suggestion
for high-performance data retrieval and storage.
```

Platform.sh supports two different Redis configurations:

- [Ephemeral Redis](#ephemeral-redis): for application-level caching with no persistent storage

> - [Persistent Redis](#persistent-redis): for fast application-level key-value persistent storage

Reviewer: :lady_beetle: I'm not sure if there's not too many nouns modifying storage. It might be a little hard to parse, so maybe making it a little longer would help?

> - [Ephemeral Redis](#ephemeral-redis): for application-level caching with no persistent storage
> - [Persistent Redis](#persistent-redis): for fast application-level key-value persistent storage

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: The double capitalization makes it look more like a proper noun. Maybe it wouldn't without both?
```suggestion
- [Ephemeral](#ephemeral-redis): for application-level caching with no persistent storage
- [Persistent](#persistent-redis): for fast application-level key-value persistent storage
```

{{% deprecated-versions %}}

| Grid | {{% names/dedicated-gen-3 %}} | {{% names/dedicated-gen-2 %}} |
|------|-------------------------------|------------------------------ |
| {{< image-versions image="redis" status="deprecated" environment="grid" >}} | {{< image-versions image="redis" status="deprecated" environment="dedicated-gen-3" >}} | {{< image-versions image="redis" status="deprecated" environment="dedicated-gen-2" >}} |

Note that versions 3.0 and higher support up to 64 different databases per instance of the service,
while Redis 2.8 only supports a single database.

## Service types

Depending on your needs,
you can set up Redis as [ephemeral](#ephemeral-redis) or [persistent](#persistent-redis).

### Ephemeral Redis

By default, Redis is an ephemeral service that serves as a non-persistent cache.
Ephemeral Redis stores data only in memory and requires no disk space.
When the service reaches its memory limit, it triggers a cache cleanup.
To customize those cache cleanups, set up an [eviction policy](#eviction-policy).

When you use ephemeral Redis,
make sure the cache is cleaned up regularly.
To trigger a cache cleanup every time your app starts,

> configure a `start` [web command](../create-apps/app-reference.md#web-commands) similar to:

Reviewer: :clipboard: 
```suggestion
configure a [`start` command](../create-apps/app-reference.md#web-commands) similar to the following:
```

When the service reaches its memory limit, it triggers a cache cleanup.
To customize those cache cleanups, set up an [eviction policy](#eviction-policy).

Data in an ephemeral Redis instance is stored only in memory and thus requires no disk space.
When the service hits its memory limit,
it automatically evicts cache items according to the [configured eviction rule](#eviction-policy) to make room for new ones.
When you use ephemeral Redis,
make sure the cache is cleaned up regularly.
To trigger a cache cleanup every time your app starts,
configure a `start` [web command](../create-apps/app-reference.md#web-commands) similar to:

Your app must not treat ephemeral Redis as permanent.
Instead, the cache needs to be regenerated as necessary.
For example, if a container is moved for a reason such as region maintenance,

> the `deploy` and `post_deploy` hooks don't run and an app that treats the cache as permanent shows errors.

Reviewer: :lady_beetle: This information is probably necessary to include. The problem is that people don't view such events as things that would cause problems and then they run into issues and open support tickets. The new wording only suggests doing it regularly, which could be done by cron or something. A stronger push for the start command with reasons like these (though perhaps better phrased) would probably be good.

> Note that when you use ephemeral Redis,

Reviewer: :pick: I'd try to avoid `Note that` when it's not a direct contrast or something like that.
```suggestion
When you use ephemeral Redis,
```

This allows for fast data retrieval,
but also means data can be lost when a container is moved or shut down.

> To solve this issue, configure your Redis service as persistent.

Reviewer: :pick: I don't know, but I feel like `solve` is too strong or something like that. :thinking: 
```suggestion
To resolve this issue, configure your Redis service as persistent.
```

| Grid | {{% names/dedicated-gen-3 %}} | {{% names/dedicated-gen-2 %}} |
|------|-------------------------------|------------------------------ |
| {{< image-versions image="redis" status="deprecated" environment="grid" >}} | {{< image-versions image="redis" status="deprecated" environment="dedicated-gen-3" >}} | {{< image-versions image="redis" status="deprecated" environment="dedicated-gen-2" >}} |

Note that versions 3.0 and higher support up to 64 different databases per instance of the service,
while Redis 2.8 only supports a single database.

## Service types

Depending on your needs,
you can set up Redis as [ephemeral](#ephemeral-redis) or [persistent](#persistent-redis).

### Ephemeral Redis

By default, Redis is an ephemeral service that serves as a non-persistent cache.
Ephemeral Redis stores data only in memory and requires no disk space.
When the service reaches its memory limit, it triggers a cache cleanup.
To customize those cache cleanups, set up an [eviction policy](#eviction-policy).

Make sure your app doesn't rely on ephemeral Redis for persistent storage as it can cause issues.
For example, if a container is moved during region maintenance,

> the `deploy` and `post_deploy` hooks can't run and the app shows errors.

Reviewer: :clipboard: They could, but they don't
```suggestion
the `deploy` and `post_deploy` hooks don't run and the app shows errors.
```

Reviewer: :pcik: I'm not sure if "the app" is clear enough in the conditional. :shrug:
```suggestion
the `deploy` and `post_deploy` hooks don't run and an app that treats the cache as permanent shows errors.
```

## Multiple databases

Redis 3.0 and above support up to 64 databases.

> But you can't set up different access rights to each database.
> When you set up a relationship connection,
> access to all the databases is automatically granted.

Reviewer: :+1:  Good shift from `Redis doesn't` to the second person.

:clipboard: 
```suggestion
But you can't set up different access rights to each database.
When you set up a relationship connection,
access to all of the databases is automatically granted.
```

> The way you can access a particular database depends on the [client library](https://redis.io/clients) you're using:

Reviewer: :question: Can I ask why you made this change? It feels less natural to me and slightly more confusing as there's an extra modal verb. But I very well could be missing something.

{{< /codetabs >}}

## Relationship

After you've [configured your Redis service](#usage-example),
you can retrieve information such as the credentials and port you need to connect to your Redis service.

To do so, you can access the [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable](../development/variables/use-variables.md#use-platformsh-provided-variables) directly [in your app](../../development/variables/use-variables.md#access-variables-in-your-app),

> for example using a Platform.sh configuration reader.

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: This section should be just a reference and this intro seems rather long for that. We have [suggested wording for an intro](https://github.com/platformsh/platformsh-docs/blob/main/docs/templates/service-reference.md?plain=1#L75-L76). Do you think that's missing something?

> The format exposed in the `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable is identical
> for [ephemeral](#ephemeral-redis) and [persistent](#persistent-redis) Redis:

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: Since you can get to it in different ways, I wouldn't put so much emphasis on the variable.
```suggestion
The format of the relationship is identical whether your Redis service is [ephemeral](#ephemeral-redis) or [persistent](#persistent-redis).
```

{{< relationship "redis" >}}

## Eviction policy

> When the [ephemeral Redis](#ephemeral-redis) reaches its memory limit,

Reviewer: :clipboard: 
```suggestion
When [ephemeral Redis](#ephemeral-redis) reaches its memory limit,
```

it triggers a cache cleanup.

> To customize those cache cleanups, set up an eviction policy:

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: To note it's an example and they could choose a different one
```suggestion
To customize those cache cleanups, set up an eviction policy such as the following:
```

```yaml {location=".platform.app.yaml"}

> web:
> cache:
>     type: redis:5.0
>     configuration:
>         maxmemory_policy: allkeys-lru

Reviewer: :clipboard: With the added key (which was good to notice), the indentation of the others should change.
```suggestion
web:
    cache:
        type: redis:5.0
        configuration:
            maxmemory_policy: allkeys-lru
```

>         maxmemory_policy: allkeys-lru

Reviewer: :question: if `allkeys-lru` is the default should that be noted (that if you don't set anything, it's equivalent to this example)? Or should the example be changed? Or not?

```

The value of the `maxmemory-policy` key defines which eviction policy applies.

> Possible values are:

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: 
```suggestion
The following table presents the possible values:
```

| `allkeys-random`  | Randomly removes cache items to make room for new data.                                                     |
| `volatile-random` | Randomly removes cache items with the `expire` field set to `true`.                                         |
| `volatile-ttl`    | Removes cache items with the `expire` field set to `true` and the shortest remaining `time-to -live` value. |

For more information on the different policies,
see the official [Redis documentation](https://redis.io/docs/reference/eviction/).

## Access your Redis service through the Redis CLI

After you've [configured your Redis service](#usage-example),
you can access it using the [Redis CLI](https://redis.io/docs/ui/cli/).

Retrieve the hostname and port you can connect to 
through the `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` [environment variable](../../development/variables/use-variables.md#use-platformsh-provided-variables).
You can access the `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable directly [in your app](../../development/variables/use-variables.md#access-variables-in-your-app),

> for example using a Platform.sh configuration reader.

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: If you're using the CLI, you probably don't want to use things in an app or a config reader. I'd suggest using the Platform.sh CLI and `platform relationships`.

Or, if you're opening an SSH session anyway, then use that as the first step and get the relationship there with the variable (but I'd include the command to decode it).

See the [Redis documentation](https://redis.io/docs/reference/eviction/) for a description of each option.
For more information on the different policies,
see the official [Redis documentation](https://redis.io/docs/reference/eviction/).

## Using redis-cli to access your Redis service
## Access your Redis service through the Redis CLI

Assuming a Redis relationship named `applicationcache` defined in your app configuration:
After you've [configured your Redis service](#usage-example),
you can access it using the [Redis CLI](https://redis.io/docs/ui/cli/).

{{< readFile file="src/registry/images/examples/full/redis.app.yaml" highlight="yaml" location=".platform.app.yaml" >}}
Retrieve the hostname and port you can connect to 
through the `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` [environment variable](../../development/variables/use-variables.md#use-platformsh-provided-variables).
You can access the `PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable directly [in your app](../../development/variables/use-variables.md#access-variables-in-your-app),
for example using a Platform.sh configuration reader.

and your service definition:

> {{< readFile file="src/registry/images/examples/full/redis.services.yaml" highlight="yaml" location=".platform/services.yaml" >}}

Reviewer: :+1: But definitely good to get away from this confusing example that doesn't seem related to the command.

{{< /codetabs >}}

> ## Relationship

Reviewer: :pick: To match the template, though it could work either way.
```suggestion
## Relationship reference
```

> Example information available through the [`$PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-platformsh-provided-variables)

Reviewer: :clipboard: 
```suggestion
Example information available through the [`$PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable](../development/variables/use-variables.md#use-platformsh-provided-variables)
```
